PR-Guide-Grid-Intro (#835)
contao/docs: docs/manual/guides/grid-system.en.md

an »[article](/en/article-management/articles/)« and you want to split them into two columns.

For the grid definition you always need an enclosing HTML container. This is already available in the form of the article. 
The content elements are listed below each other in the article, in the respective order. 
First you set the CSS class »mygrid« in the »Expert settings« section of the article settings. Then create two or more 
content elements of type »Text«. With the following specifications you can realize a simple grid representation:

{{< tabs groupId="Grid Layout">}}
{{% tab name="HTML Abstract" %}}
```html
<div class="mod_article mygrid block" id="article-1">
    <div class="ce_text block">
      ...
    </div>
    <div class="ce_text block">
      ...
    </div>
</div>
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="CSS Abstract" %}}
```css
.mygrid {
    display: grid;
    grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr;
    grid-gap: 20px 20px;
}
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

If you want to set a grid only specifically within individual areas of an article, you can realize the enclosing 
HTML containers with the content element of the type »[HTML](/en/article-management/content-elements/#html)«. Create 

> two content elements with the specifications »&lt;div class="mygrid"&gt;" and "&lt;/div&gt;«. Your text elements must then be 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
two content elements with the specifications »&lt;div class="mygrid"&gt;« and »&lt;/div&gt;«. Your text elements must then be 
```

          ...
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="CSS Abstract" %}}
```css
.mygrid {
    display: grid;
    grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr;
    grid-gap: 20px 20px;
}
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

The examples are deliberately kept simple. If you need a grid layout only occasionally, you can do this without 
any extension. Of course the »CSS Grid Layout« offers further possibilities and is 
well [documented]((https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Grid_Layout)).

## With an extension

For a comfortable implementation in the backend there are extensions, among others the 
»[contao-grid-bundle](https://extensions.contao.org/?q=euf&pages=1&p=erdmannfreunde%2Fcontao-grid-bundle)«. 
The extension supports a »12 column grid« by default, based on the »CSS Grid Layout«, but can 
be [customized](https://github.com/ErdmannFreunde/contao-grid-bundle) as you like.

For the enclosing HTML containers, separate content elements are provided in the backend and in the 
content elements themselves, you can easily select the required columns for different viewports. Detailed information 
and documentation about the extension can be found 

> [here](https://erdmann-freunde.de/dokumentationen/contao-erweiterungen/euf-grid/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[on the project website](https://erdmann-freunde.de/dokumentationen/contao-erweiterungen/euf-grid/).
```
